# Weighted k-Nearest Neighbours NHL Equivalency
This work aims to highlight the core issue with traditional NHLe models, the overreliance on static league equivalencies, as it often underrepresents the way that playstyle and skill influence translatability to the NHL.

This is an extension of [my previous project]([url](https://github.com/SeanBoyd13/Similarity-Weighted-Translation-Projection-Model)) recreated and further optimized as I have continued learning of new ways to improve upon my prior methods while attending McGill University.

## Project Details
This framework is constructed to retrieve historical data from drafted prospects using nhl.com and records.nhl.com APIs, and these retrieved box score stats are used to compute a loose proxy for similarity between a player and historical comparables of the same league and position. This similarity metric can be used to weight the translation rates of past players as they moved between leagues. Through the novel path-weighting algorithm (which draws inspiration from Connor Jung's Apple Hockey), we can compute a predicted translation factor used to estimate how a player's metrics might translate to the NHL. Due to the similarity-weighting aspect of this framework, this is coined "S.W.A.T." (Similarity-Weighted Approximate Translation) throughout the code.

In the excels generated by the excel.py script, "NHL Equivalency" (NHLe) values are generated for each player via this framework. NHLe values represent the roughly equivalent statistical profile in the case this player were in the NHL rather than their current league. NHLe is often used as a tool to evaluate how prospects in an NHL team's system are performing relative to expectations. In this framework's case the "NHLe" value is the prediction for the player's stats next season rather than finding a direct equivalent for the current season, since there's more sample size for consecutive-season translations than same-season translations. This version of NHLe can be more precisely computed with the inclusion of more advanced metrics, like that of Sportlogiq, Stathletes, or InStat's privately accessible data.

## Active Work
Currently I am planning to investigate and include a detailed report on the accuracy of this model in comparison to other NHLe models. Seeing as my previous version of this project was highly competitive in this aspect, I will additionally compare the outputs to the lists of public scouting agencies and independent scouts to further test its capabilities.

Concurrently, I am working to download InStat's advanced metric data en masse for a number of higher profile leagues to demonstrate a small scale example of the potential for this framework. Additionally, with the inclusion of a more expansive metric set, PCA optimization and using Mahalanobis distance rather than Euclidean would be required adjustments.

## Code Contents
- **load_db (Python):** Python file containing the script used to retrieve NHL API data and load the SQL DB.
- **swat_functions (Python):** Python file containing the functions performable to approximate various metrics between leagues, construct comparables, and adjust the similarity weighting system manually.
- **excel (Python):** Python file containing the script which generates excel sheets for each previous NHL Draft, computing NHLe/SWAT for each draft year relative season for all prospects of the draft class.

## Data Contents
- **{Draft}_Draft (Excel):** Excel file containing all prospects' NHLe/SWAT for each season since their draft year (inclusive), ranked by greatest predicted NHL point total.
